Gnamod Collection Documentation

Credits & Thanks
Creator: HaidrGna
Support & Testing: Max Fox Gaming, Tigressa, Dragonhunter & the Foxmillion Community.
Mod Launcher: SphereII
Inspiration: Tin (Random World and City generation)
Streaming: Max Fox Gaming, Grindler Gaming, Kage848, Games4Kicks, ++

Mod Collection
Gnamod is an overhaul mod that tries to stay close to the vanilla game, using systems that exist within it that work and changing or tuning the systems that currently do not feel balanced. This means that Gnamod is based completely off XML tweaks and the only new assets brought into the game are custom made icons for new or changed items. 

Gnamod currently comes as a base mod that changes the rules of the game to that what is typical of Gnamod. This base mod sets the rules and is the basis of all other variations that exist. Currently this means that there are four variations: Gnamod Base, Gnamod Nomad Mode, Gnamod Horde Mode and Gnamod Necropolis. 

What is typical of Gnamod? Well Gnamod is designed to prolong the game experience and to cater to experienced players that have beaten the core game, possibly on higher difficulties and have likely also already tried out other mods:

Gnamod Base
Gnamod Base is a standalone core experience extension mod. This means that the mod focuses to retain the core 7 Days to Die experience but with more focus on Survival and an overall difficulty increase that doesn’t just increase the zombie strength. This mod will have you on edge trying to survive and will make looting rewarding again without giving you everything you need within a few days. Becoming self-sufficient will be harder and more rewarding. This all set in a completely custom tailored random gen world with specifically designed biomes to create an as realistic as possible apocalyptic world. On top of that the zombies have been improved and enhanced, you will see them behave differently and you will see more of them. They will be harder to fight and there will be times where you will need to run. Survival in Gnamod is not guaranteed!

Features:

Loot Generation
The focus lies on a completely custom and overhauled generation of loot. This generation of loot is the core of Gnamod, it greatly reduces the effect of leveled loot while replacing it with a system where the amount of loot scales with player level. This means that the chance for a container to contain more than the default loot or nothing increases over time. The custom loot tables that make up Gnamod also make it so that looting most containers can be really worthwhile, you will find stuff in containers that normally you would stop looting after a while, even trash bags have a chance to contain a complete gun for example. The high value containers are made to be more rewarding and less dependent on player level so that everyone of any level can open them with a chance of a purple item inside or a large quantity of items such as ammo in gun safes. At the same time the availability of the best loot is rarer, finding good food is more difficult but nothing is impossible. Loot times are initially higher making it worthwhile for those that go out looting much to take perks to increase it. The total effect, while not initially noticeable is that the survival aspect of the game is increased and every game plays out very differently because of it. If you have problems with the amount of loot in vanilla then this will certainly interest you as it feels like you are playing with low loot settings but without completely punishing you because certain items never show up.

Random World Generation
The other pillar where Gnamod stands upon is the Random World Generation and the custom made biomes that come with it. The terrain of the world uses custom made controls that create the landscape that is needed for the mod. Base & Nomad Mode both generate a world of rolling hills, snow capped mountains and lakes. The landscape is made to feel natural with the biomes appearing based on height but also based on other factors that after some tailoring make the world feel real. The towns and cities are painted using specifically designed rules and small modifications to vanilla POI files will create towns that are unique to the biomes they appear in. If the town is in a wasteland biome it will be much more city like than one that appears in the grasslands. For the other modes unique worlds exist, Necropolis is mostly flat with the occasional lake but is completely covered with a destroyed metropolis making it a very dangerous world. For Horde Mode the world is mostly flat but has the occasional small hill and small lake. This map is very limited in size and the further you go out the more dangerous it gets.

Biomes
All modes except Necropolis share the same set biomes that make up the world. They are listed in order of how dangerous they are (including weather, temperature and radiation):

Grasslands: Mostly appears on flat and hilly terrain, composed of grass some trees and rocks. 
Wetlands: Appears wherever there is water and is composed of dirt and grass, naturally flows over in other grass biomes.
Dense Forest: Appears on the more elevated terrain such as hills and mountain bases, comes with a lot of birch and maple trees.
Pine Forest: Appears on mountain slopes and flows over from the forest into the Alpine forest.
Alpine Forest: A mix of pine and winter pines grow here, you will see snow here and it flows into the Snow Caps & Pine biomes.
Snow Caps: Mostly flat and grassy snow that you will find on the top of mountains. It can be really cold out here.
Desert: The desert is scorching hot and mostly filled with sand, sand and more sand. But you can find the precious Aloe here.
Forest Wasteland: Also known as the Creepy Forest. This forest was burned in the apocalypse but is recovering from it.
Plains Wasteland: There used to be people that lived here and the patches of rubble between the dead trees attest to that.
City Wasteland: These are the remains of urban centers that were destroyed. Radiation levels are low but zombie levels are not.
Radiated Forest: This forest suffered from a nuclear explosion nearby that killed most trees and burned down the houses.
Radiated Wasteland: The city wasteland where radiation levels are still high and where the radiated zombies make their home.

Zombies
The third pillar that Gnamod stands on is the completely overhauled Zombies. There are over 600 entities in Gnamod at the moment, mostly due to the existence of a walking variety of every zombie model and also radiated versions of them. This means there are at least 20 different zombies of every model and there are also some variations of animals , zombie animals and radiated animals. The zombies have been rebuild from the ground up to get the behavior to be interesting and surprising and to not make every zombie be just the same as the other with only a different model. Expect zombies to tougher and more challenging, expect to see more of them and more dangerous types where you previously might not have expected them. Some of them can run during the day. Animal spawns have also been rebalanced so that every day there are some animals around that can be hunted, they don’t die out after a while, they are always there but this means that the more dangerous animals are also there to hunt you. Zombies also have names now that show up when you loot them. 

The following zombies exist:
Swagger: These guys walk like the cop, they hang a bit backwards and slowly advance to you.
Intimidator: These guys go in head first and advance a bit faster because of that for some face to face action.
Moaner: These are like the classic zombies shambling with their hands forward.
Crawler: These guys lost their ability to stand and crawl ahead slowly, ambushing knees of unsuspecting survivors.
Limper: Leg injury made them limp about, but don’t underestimate them, they can still come for you.
Flailer: These guys are in a frantic fit, flailing their arms around as if protecting their faces. They run with their arms forward.
Walker: These are slow walking zombies that are not as dangerous, except when there are a ton of them.
Climber: These walk on all fours and they can scale walls. They are very dangerous and quite fast as well.
Jogger: These running zombies have a really weird way to walk and attack you with a double fist, watch out for them.
Feral: These are tinted red, are very fast all of the time and pack a deadly punch. These guys are dangerous
Puker: The pukers have developed a means to puke out corrosive acids or other nasty stuff. They are also volatile.
Radiated: All the types mentioned before can appear as radiated version as well, they glow and look sickly green, but are faster, more deadly and they regenerate health. 

On top of this the spawning and game stages of the mod are tailored to fit this new army of zeds and make them appear into the world. This means that certain biomes will have specific zombies spawn there as well as more than in vanilla as well as anything that is gamestage controlled will be of a greater challenge early on. No more easy hordes on day 7, 14 and 21. You will need to prepare for the first horde if you want to survive it. 

Guns & Ammo
Guns and ammo have been completely redone in Gnamod as well as the way ammo is crafted from components. 

Each gun part now comes in two types: Regular (1 star) and Military (2 stars). Each gun can be made from all regular parts (Regular gun, 1 star), 2 regular and 2 military parts (Modified gun, 2 stars) and all military parts (Military Grade gun, 3 stars).

Each type of ammo comes in three types: Low Grade (Handmade, 1 star), Normal Grade (Bench Crafted, 2 stars) and Military Grade (Not Craftable, 3 stars). Damage and critical chance is determined by the type of bullet fired, not by the gun that fires it.

The following bullet types exist (in order of strength): .22 LR, 9mm, .357 Mag, 5.56mm NATO, .44 Mag, 7.62mm, .50 BMG
The following shotgun ammo exists: 20 GA Shells, 20 GA Slugs, 12 GA Shells, 12 GA Slugs, 10 GA Shells, 10 GA Slugs
Blunderbuss now has: Musketshot (1 strong projectile) and Scattershot (multiple weak projectiles). 

The following guns exist and the ammo that they can fire:
Pistol (.22 LR, 9mm)
Hunting Rifle (.22 LR, .357 Mag)
SMG (9mm, 5.56mm NATO)
Revolver (.357 Mag, .44 Mag)
AK47 (5.56mm NATO, 7.62mm)
Deagle (.44 Mag, .50 BMG)
Sniper Rifle (7.62mm, .50BMG)

The following shotguns exist and the ammo they can fire:
Blunderbuss: (Musketshot, Scattershot, 20 GA Shell, 20 GA Slug)
Short Barrel Pump Shotgun (20 GA Shells, 12 GA Shells)
Long Barrel Pump Shotgun (12 GA Shells, 12 GA Slugs)
Double Barrel Shotgun (10 GA Shells, 10 GA Slugs) 

Bullet, Shell and Slug components come in more variety now. There are normal and large versions of casings and tips and you can find used casings to make low grade bullets from. Shell casings exist in paper versions for low grade and plastic versions for normal grades. Gunpower comes in two grades, Handcrafted and the properly made Normal Grade. Making low grade bullets can be done from the inventory with low grade components, the normal grade ammo can be made at the workbench. Military grade ammo is rare and can only be looted/traded.

Recipes
Recipes have been overhauled and changed to slow the progression of the base game a bit or to be somewhat more realistic. The aim is to make crafting and resource requirements more logical, this means nails for example are required for many wood constructions, plant fibers are needed to make wood frames and cloth and cotton is needed to make a bedroll. There are lot of tweaks and changes here with that aim in mind. A full list of recipe changes I might add later, but part of trying out a new mod is discovering what has been changed. 

Currently schematics do not exist anymore in Gnamod and they will be replaced by perks and books that can teach those perks instead. This part of Gnamod is still under development and will likely change when I get around to overhauling the tools and construction side of the game. The aim is that you can craft and repair whatever you get, assuming you can get the resources and the right workstation. So rather than being limited by randomly finding a schematic, you are limited by what resources you have.

Survival & Hunting
In Gnamod you will need to eat and drink more often, the aim is that when the overhaul of food and drink is completed that most food items will fill you up nearly the same but the impact on your health will be what matters. Some meals may fill you slightly better, but the aim is that you will need about 3 meals (taking 60 minute days as baseline). Animals do not yield as much food or hides when you hunt them. Axes can still be used for chopping animals but are never better than the bone shiv, the machete gives the most.

Quests
Gnamod comes with an overhauled starting quest and will give you a tutorial quest you can either read or craft into a skip tutorial note. The skip tutorial note will give you skillpoints as normal but not the trader mark.

Heat
In Gnamod sound increases the heat more than in the base game, this means player activity in general generates more heat. Animal corpses not cleaned out will generated more heat as well. Screamers or hordes triggered by heat will become bigger as time passes.

Recommended Settings:
- Daylength and Daylight: Default.
- Loot respawn/abundance: 30 days or off, 100% loot!! (Do not decrease it below 75%)
- Difficulty: Nomad or Warrior.
- Airdrops: 3 days.
- Bloodmoon count: Solo 32 or 64, Multiplayer 16 or 32.
- Server: 60 or 50 Zombies max alive (80 max for strong servers), Animals 50 max alive.

Introduction Gnamod Nomad Mode
If you ever wanted to get right into the action in 7 Days to Die or liked to just roam around and explore the world then Gnamod Nomad Mode will be something you might like. In this mode crafting has been severely limited, you will need a workbench to practically make anything, including the forge. You will be on the run daily to find a new home or dig up a pack left behind for you with supplies. There is no digging down in this mod, so you cannot hide underground when at night the zombies come out. And they will, in great numbers. By day running zombies might come to chase you, at night the horde around you swells and you may have to defend the building you are camping in. Luckily you start off packed and loaded, you get a starter kit with all kinds of randomized goodies, but there will always be a gun or two and other supplies to keep you alive. The rest you will need to scavenge from hidden caches, airdropped goods or perhaps that skyscraper up on the horizon. Live the dream as a nomad or die trying!

Nomad Mode Features: 
- Gnamod Base modifications (see Gnamod Base)
- You start with a Nomading quest and are given a starter kit with randomized gear.
- Crafting is mostly limited to workstations.
- No mining, you can dig only 4 blocks deep.
- Increased zombie spawns, daily hordes can run, at night more zombies appear.

Recommended Settings:
- Daylength and Daylight: 30 min days, 16 hours daylight. (Long days do not work well in this mode)
- Loot respawn/abundance: 30 days or off, 100% loot!! (Do not decrease it below 75%)
- Difficulty: Nomad or Warrior.
- Airdrops: 1 or 3 days.
- Bloodmoon count: Solo 32 or 64, Multiplayer 16 or 32.
- Server: 60 or 50 Zombies max alive (80 max for strong servers), Animals 50 max alive.

Introduction Gnamod Horde Mode
In your last attempt to leave the wasteland you stumble upon a patch of land seemingly untouched by the ravages of the apocalypse. On your way you picked up a beacon that was said to call for help. But upon placing down this beacon you realize that no plane or helicopter is coming to pick you up. Nobody is coming to help it seems, perhaps you just need to wait a little bit longer? The radiation around you seems to slowly seep into the patch of land as well as its residents. It seems that the beacon also attracts something else, giving the zombies a more acute sense of your whereabouts. It seems you have no choice but to defend the spot where you set down the beacon and make use of the supplies that are inside it. You occasionally spot a plane flying around dropping off supplies, it seems it is just a matter of time before they come to rescue you at last, you just need to survive! You noticed that the beacon has a nuclear power supply, if the zombies destroy that you are surely going to die. Will you survive the ever increasing waves of zombies that are set upon you or die trying?

Features: 
- Gnamod Base modifications (see Gnamod Base)
- No mining, you can dig only 4 blocks deep. 
- Severely reduced world size with only a small save spot in the center, the rest of the map is composed of danger!
- You start with a Horde Mode quest and are give a starter kit with randomized gear, a beacon and cash to buy supplies.
- The beacon should be placed on solid ground, it is heavy and volatile, do not let the zombies destroy it, it will explode!
- The beacon comes with a Building Cache and a Supplies Cache. These are special vending machines that sell stuff you need.
- Earn coins by killing zombies (quest), collecting loot drops (from zombies), collecting airdrops and digging up treasure.
- Build and repair your base by day, defend it against zombies at night. Every 7th day they also come during the day.
- Still under development so some features listed may not be fully implemented yet! 

Recommended Settings:
- Daylength and Daylight: 40 min days, 12 hours daylight!! (The more daylight you have the easier the mode) 
- Loot respawn/abundance: 30 days or off, 100% loot!! (Do not decrease it below 75%)
- Difficulty: Nomad or Warrior.
- Airdrops: 1 or 3 days.
- Bloodmoon count: Solo 32 or 64, Multiplayer 16 or 32.
- Server: 40 – 60 Zombies max alive, Animals 40 max alive.

Introduction Gnamod Necropolis

